---
layout: default
section: teaching
title: 2013 projects
parent: teaching &laquo; mort
---

Project Proposals---Academic year 2013/2014
========================

If you're a third-year or masters student at University of Nottingham
and you wish to take on one of these projects, or have your own
project in mind, please [mail me][e].

If anyone else either implements any of these, can prove that they're
impossible, or has any other interesting comment to make, then also,
please [mail me][e].


Network Traces
--------------

There are several possibilities here. `libpcap` is the standard packet format
parser, but it's reasonably poor at dealing with very large files (at least on
Windows), with damaged files, and with files where an incomplete snaplen was
used. Develop and evaluate a better one in a modern language, e.g., OCaml or
F#. Develop tools to process traces taken in parallel from multiple vantage
points, to good effect. Develop useful, novel visualisations of network trace
data at multiple layers.




[Mirage][]
----------

[Mirage][] is a new way to build software appliances for the cloud.
Application code is written in OCaml and then compiled and linked with
necessary operating system libraries into a single standalone virtual machine
image. A range of projects involving [Mirage][] are possible ranging from
implementing and evaluating some substantial piece of systems software, e.g.,
IMAP server, XMPP server, Wave server, BGP router; to introducing support in
[Mirage][] for alternative programming languages, e.g., [Python][] via the
(incomplete) [Vyper][] OCaml implementation.


[Personal Containers][perscon] 
----

This is one of my current research projects, and I would be interested in
hearing any ideas for related student projects. Possible areas include
development of interesting new data sources (either native or via shims); or
development of query systems or automated code analysis or other provenance
mechanism for personal data processing code.


[perscon]: http://perscon.net/
[Python]: http://www.python.org/
[Mirage]: http://openmirage.org/
[Vyper]: http://got.net/~landauer/sw/vyper_readme.html
[e]: mailto:richard.mortier@nottingham.ac.uk
